so Microsoft recently announced their
new surface go it's this tune one device
starts at four hundred dollars and I
think it's the cheapest or one of the
cheapest computing devices that
Microsoft has ever put out and it's
actually in my opinion one of the most
interesting devices that they've put out
in quite a while
this isn't it this is a surface pro 4
very similar in idea and design though
so what makes this thing special though
is the price tag $400 is very affordable
and I think a lot of people are looking
at it out of interest as am I so I just
took a look at their launch video and I
just had a couple thoughts on the device
as a whole the first thing I noted is
that the CPU they can only get in one
configuration it's the 44 15y Pentium
Gold came out middle of last year
something like that not a super new chip
but it's relatively power efficient and
has very respectable performance for a
fanless chip it's noticeably faster than
some of the older surface devices but
its main strength is the onboard GPU
that HD 615 is quite a big step up from
older devices now if you look at the
price point of $400 it's quite
attractive there but I feel like that's
a bit of a marketing ploy because that
$400 version as cool as it sounds is I
don't think it's the one to get if
you're gonna look at this I would look
at the kind of mid tier model the $550
version here's why that $400 version has
four gigs of RAM that's not like a
deal-breaker to me four gigs is not
great but it's not the end of the world
it's the drive speed so they're using
emmc storage in the base model and that
is really really slow stuff if you step
up to the mid tier model they're using
nvme storage and that faster storage has
a huge huge role in just how the device
feels overall it's very interested in
this thing I would highly recommend the
8 gig model not again it's not about the
RAM it's the storage speed it's just
nvme is so much faster that's the one to
get the bezels on this device are a
little thick but since it's a tablet I'm
less bothered by it like when you have a
thicker bezel to hold on to it's just
you know kind of serves those like a
grip so you don't have accidental swipes
and touches like that the kickstand on
the surface go it goes all the way back
like the 2017 surface pro so 165 degrees
I think that type of functionality on a
kickstand honestly makes this device so
much more versatility
it obviously depends on the user but if
you're using it for like drawing or
writing or anything like that that
kickstand that folds all the way back is
money as for ports on the surface go
you're getting a use PC port this time
which is really nice you can charge with
it you can connect stuff to it display
out all that good stuff it's your
standard use PC it doesn't support
Thunderbolt 3 not surprising given what
the product is I don't even think it
would've been all that useful
considering the CPU like what are you
gonna do with that Venable 3 port now
the included charger still uses the
surface connect port it's not a use PC
charger but it's still nice that does
support use PC charging the type cover
goes for 100 bucks I think most users
will want to pick this up with the
device they've made the touch pad bigger
nice to see that I've always found the
touch covers to be kind of annoying that
it comes as a separate thing like on
some of these devices especially on the
base model a type cover is gonna be 20%
the cost of your whole device like
that's that's crazy
a hundred bucks of a $500 kit is like
that's very expensive for a keyboard but
it is what it is
surface likes to do that now I took a
look at some older models just to see
what was out there to see if there's
other stuff that you get instead of the
surface go just to know I'm just kind of
like a comparison of competitors and
alternatives and I actually think that
the surface go is a very it's kind of in
a class of its own if you get anything
that's older like yeah you're gonna get
similar processing power and sometimes
larger screens and maybe some better
functionality but the overall product of
the surface go has a lot of features
that are unique to it that just make it
a very respectable and reasonable
purchase like the USBC charging the
windows hello the updated screen with
good pen support it looks like a really
cool device the unfortunate thing is
that instead of that $400 price point
that Microsoft is touting it looks like
it's gonna be like 650 to get a really
kind of fully functional kit going for
like the mid tier model and a keyboard
so it's not super cheap but I think it's
respectable I don't know what do you
guys think like is this something that
you're interested in because this can't
be or this it's unlikely that most
people can use this as their primary
device certainly not for like the people
that watch my channel you guys are
enthusiasts you care about Tech and you
usually have some thats a little more
powerful in this but it's good as a
secondary device I think and
for me personally if I wasn't making
YouTube videos I would actually try to
pick up one of these things as my
primary device just to see how far could
get on it it's pretty cool okay hope you
guys enjoyed this video thumbs we liked
it subs you loved it see you guys next
time